# Complex
The complex work of a phlebotomist
Complex Processing- As a phlebotomist at Quest Diagnostics, over the years I have noticed some people believe that we just draw blood. That is not the case at all. We need to have good patient communication, understand how insurance works, read lab orders written by doctors, and understand the lab tests, and the way they are processed and handled before they get to the lab for the Laboratory Technologist or Pathologist to perform the reading on the tests. It is imperative to know which tubing the test goes into, there are different additives in the tubes that are needed for different tests. Some tests need only white blood cells and some need red blood cells. It is my job as a phlebotomist, to know which tests get what kind of blood. If a test is ordered for the patient, that needs only white or red blood cells then we need to place the blood in a centrifuge that spins the blood for 15 minutes at a speed of 3100 revolutions per minute, while the blood in the tubes sits at a 45% angle. This allows for the blood to separate, with red blood cells at the bottom and the white blood cells sitting atop the red. Then depending on the amount needed for the test a pipette is used to transfer and measure out the amount into another tube. Some tests are heated in the warm sand, at room temperature, refrigerated, frozen, or put on dry ice. It is imperative to make sure each test is processed exactly how it is supposed to be processed. If it is not then a lot is at risk, the test could come back giving the patient incorrect values, or the patient needs to be redrawn. It is extremely important to get it right the first time to ensure proper results. Diagnostic testing can be the first step to a diagnosis, and it needs to be 100% correct, 100% of the time, to ensure the patient gets proper care and further testing. Quest Diagnostics offers over 3500 laboratory tests knowing exactly what processing techniques, and requirements, as well as following all standards of procedures while following safety and sanitation protocols is complex. Managing your time, staying organized, and being informed on any changes made throughout the company help ensure your job runs as smoothly as possible.
